[Merged by Bors] - 0.7 migration guide (#332)
bevyengine/bevy-website: content/learn/book/migration-guides/0.6-0.7/_index.md

+++
title = "0.6 to 0.7"
weight = 1
sort_by = "weight"
template = "book-section.html"
page_template = "book-section.html"
insert_anchor_links = "right"
[extra]
long_title = "Migration Guide: 0.6 to 0.7"
+++

<!-- Github filter used to find the relevant PRs "is:pr label:C-Breaking-Change closed:>2022-02-01 [Merged by Bors]" -->

### AliasedMutability

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/4298>

> The QueryEntityError enum now has a `AliasedMutability` variant, and returns the offending entity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `QueryEntityError` enum now has a `AliasedMutability` variant, and returns the offending entity.
```

### Remove margins.rs

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/4284>

> The Margins type got removed. To migrate you just have to change every occurrence of Margins to UiRect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Margins` type was removed. To migrate, replace of `Margins` with `UiRect`.
```

### Remove face_toward.rs

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/4277>

> The FaceToward trait got removed. To migrate you just have to change every occurrence of Mat4::face_toward to Mat4::look_at_rh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `FaceToward` trait got removed. To migrate, replace every occurrence of `Mat4::face_toward` to `Mat4::look_at_rh`.
```

> ### unsafeify World::entities_mut

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###  `World::entities_mut` is now unsafe
```

// 0.7
unsafe { world.entities_mut() }
```

### Mesh vertex buffer layouts

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3959>

TODO

### Remove the need for 'IntoSystem::into_system()' when using run criteria piping

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3923>

```rs
// 0.6
.with_run_criteria(RunCriteria::pipe(
    "is_done_label",
    IntoSystem::into_system(inverse),
))

// 0.7
.with_run_criteria(RunCriteria::pipe("is_done_label", inverse))
```

### Obviate the need for RunSystem, and remove it

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3817>

TODO

### Replace VSync with PresentMode

https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3812

Instead of using a boolean flag for vsync we switched to using a {{rust_type(type="struct" crate="bevy" mod="window" version="0.7.0" name="PresentMode" no_mod=true)}} enum with multiple variants.

```rs
// 0.6
App::new()
    .insert_resource(WindowDescriptor {
        vsync: false,
        ..Default::default()
    })

// 0.7
App::new()
    .insert_resource(WindowDescriptor {
        present_mode: PresentMode::Mailbox,
        ..Default::default()
    })
```

### Fix mul_vec3 tranformation order

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3811>

> Fixes order of transformations to scale -> rotate -> translate. This doesn't require any code changes, but it means SpriteBundle will behave as expected when rotating.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transforms are now consistently applied in the standard  scale -> rotate -> translate order. This doesn't require any code changes, but it means SpriteBundle will behave as expected when rotating.
```

### Use marker components for cameras instead of name strings

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3635>

TODO

### Remove the config api

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3633>

TODO

### Add capability to render to a texture

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3412>

```rs
// 0.6
commands.spawn_bundle(PerspectiveCameraBundle {
    camera: Camera {
        window: window_id,
        ..Default::default()
    },
    ..Default::default()
});

// 0.7
commands.spawn_bundle(PerspectiveCameraBundle {
    camera: Camera {
        target: RenderTarget::Window(window_id),
        ..Default::default()
    },
    ..Default::default()
});
```

### Implement init_resource for Commands and World

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3079>

```rs
#[derive(Default)]
struct Scoreboard {
    current_score: u32,
    high_score: u32,
}

// 0.6
commands.insert_resource(Scoreboard::Default());

// 0.7
commands.init_resource::<Scoreboard>();
```

### ParamSet for conflicting SystemParam

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/2765>

> TODO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TODO

### Infallabile resource getters

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/4047>

```rs
// 0.6
let score = world.get_resource::<Score>().unwrap();

// 0.7
let score = world.resource::<Score>();
```

```rs
// 0.6
world.entities_mut()

// 0.7
unsafe { world.entities_mut() }
```

### Mesh vertex buffer layouts

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3959>

TODO

### Remove the need for 'IntoSystem::into_system()' when using run criteria piping

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3923>

```rs
// 0.6
.with_run_criteria(RunCriteria::pipe(
    "is_done_label",
    IntoSystem::into_system(inverse),
))

// 0.7
.with_run_criteria(RunCriteria::pipe("is_done_label", inverse))
```

### Obviate the need for RunSystem, and remove it

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3817>

TODO

### Replace VSync with PresentMode

https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3812

Instead of using a boolean flag for vsync we switched to using a [`PresentMode`] enum with multiple variants.

```rs
// 0.6
App::new()
    .insert_resource(WindowDescriptor {
        vsync: false,
        ..Default::default()
    })

// 0.7
App::new()
    .insert_resource(WindowDescriptor {
        present_mode: PresentMode::Mailbox,
        ..Default::default()
    })
```

<!-- TODO update to 0.7 link -->
[`PresentMode`]: http://dev-docs.bevyengine.org/bevy/window/enum.PresentMode.html

> ### Fix mul_vec3 tranformation order
> 
> <https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3811>
> 
> Transforms are now consistently applied in the standard scale -> rotate -> translate. This doesn't require any code changes, but it means SpriteBundle will behave as expected when rotating.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Would love to hear other opinions on this, but if this isn't actionable, I don't think it needs to be here.

Author: Well, it technically affected how things were transformed, so if somebody hacked something on top, they can remove it, but I guess the changelog is enough for this.

### Use marker components for cameras instead of name strings

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3635>

TODO

### Remove the config api

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3633>

TODO

> ### Add capability to render to a texture

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Cameras now point at RenderTarget rather than Window

This change was made to support rendering to textures. Users working with multiple windows may be affected.
```

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3412>

```rs
// 0.6
commands.spawn_bundle(PerspectiveCameraBundle {
    camera: Camera {
        window: window_id,
        ..Default::default()
    },
    ..Default::default()
});

// 0.7
commands.spawn_bundle(PerspectiveCameraBundle {
    camera: Camera {
        target: RenderTarget::Window(window_id),
        ..Default::default()
    },
    ..Default::default()
});
```

### Implement init_resource for Commands and World

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3079>

```rs
#[derive(Default)]
struct Scoreboard {
    current_score: u32,
    high_score: u32,
}

// 0.6
commands.insert_resource(Scoreboard::Default());

// 0.7
commands.init_resource::<Scoreboard>();
```

### ParamSet for conflicting SystemParam

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/2765>

> TODO

Reviewer 2: ~~~suggestion

```rs
// 0.6
fn system(
    mut transforms: QuerySet<(
        QueryState<&mut Transform, With<Marker>>,
        QueryState<&Transform>,
    )>,
) {
    if let Ok(transform) = transforms.q1().get(entity) {
        // ...
    }
}
// 0.7
fn system(
    mut transforms: ParamSet<(
        Query<&mut Transform, With<Marker>>,
        Query<&Transform>
    )>,
) {
    if let Ok(transform) = transforms.p1().get(entity) {
        // ...
    }
}
```
~~~

The `FaceToward` trait was removed. To migrate, replace every occurrence of `Mat4::face_toward` to `Mat4::look_at_rh`.

### `World::entities_mut` is now unsafe

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/4093>

```rs
// 0.6
world.entities_mut()

// 0.7
unsafe { world.entities_mut() }
```

### Mesh vertex buffer layouts

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3959>

TODO

### Remove the need for 'IntoSystem::into_system()' when using run criteria piping

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3923>

```rs
// 0.6
.with_run_criteria(RunCriteria::pipe(
    "is_done_label",
    IntoSystem::into_system(inverse),
))

// 0.7
.with_run_criteria(RunCriteria::pipe("is_done_label", inverse))
```

### Obviate the need for RunSystem, and remove it

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3817>

TODO

### Replace VSync with PresentMode

https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3812

Instead of using a boolean flag for vsync we switched to using a [`PresentMode`] enum with multiple variants.

```rs
// 0.6
App::new()
    .insert_resource(WindowDescriptor {
        vsync: false,
        ..Default::default()
    })

// 0.7
App::new()
    .insert_resource(WindowDescriptor {

>         present_mode: PresentMode::Mailbox,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        present_mode: PresentMode::Immediate,
```

To match the intent of the 0.6 block

+++
title = "0.6 to 0.7"
weight = 1
sort_by = "weight"
template = "book-section.html"
page_template = "book-section.html"
insert_anchor_links = "right"
[extra]
long_title = "Migration Guide: 0.6 to 0.7"
+++

<!-- Github filter used to find the relevant PRs "is:pr label:C-Breaking-Change closed:>2022-02-01 [Merged by Bors]" -->

### ParamSet for conflicting SystemParam

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/2765>

```rs
// 0.6
fn system(
    mut transforms: QuerySet<(
        QueryState<&mut Transform, With<Marker>>,
        QueryState<&Transform>,
    )>,
) {
    for transform in transforms.q1().iter() {
        // ...
    }
}
// 0.7
fn system(
    mut transforms: ParamSet<(
        Query<&mut Transform, With<Marker>>,
        Query<&Transform>
    )>,
) {
    for transform in transforms.p1().iter() {
        // ...
    }
}
```

### AliasedMutability

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/4298>

The `QueryEntityError` enum now has a `AliasedMutability` variant, and returns the offending entity.

### Remove margins.rs

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/4284>

> The `Margins` type was removed. To migrate, replace of `Margins` with `UiRect`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `Margins` type was removed. To migrate, replace of `Margins` with `Rect`.
```
https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/4276 isn't merged yet

### Remove face_toward.rs

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/4277>

The `FaceToward` trait was removed. To migrate, replace every occurrence of `Mat4::face_toward` to `Mat4::look_at_rh`.

### `World::entities_mut` is now unsafe

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/4093>

```rs
// 0.6
world.entities_mut()

// 0.7
unsafe { world.entities_mut() }
```

### Mesh vertex buffer layouts

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3959>

> TODO

Reviewer 2: ~~~suggestion

Custom vertex attributes are now referenced by a `MeshVertexAttribute` rather than a simple string and `set_attribute` has been renamed to `insert_attribute` better reflect its behavior.

```rs
// 0.6
mesh.set_attribute("Vertex_Custom", VertexAttributeValues::Sint32x4(vec![]));

// 0.7
// Generate your own random identifier here.
// https://play.rust-lang.org/?gist=cc7e824724ba023e9bff25db35ef1f5e
pub const ATTRIBUTE_CUSTOM: MeshVertexAttribute =
    MeshVertexAttribute::new("Custom", 17351772347970238659, VertexFormat::Sint32x4);
mesh.insert_attribute(
    ATTRIBUTE_CUSTOM,
    VertexAttributeValues::Sint32x4(vec![]),
);
```

Vertex buffers no longer need to be manually laid out with offset and stride values in a `RenderPipelineDescriptor`.

```rs
// 0.6
let vertex_buffer_layout = VertexBufferLayout {
    array_stride: 20,
    step_mode: VertexStepMode::Vertex,
    attributes: vec![
        VertexAttribute {
            format: VertexFormat::Float32x3,
            offset: 0,
            shader_location: 0,
        },
        VertexAttribute {
            format: VertexFormat::Float32x2,
            offset: 12,
            shader_location: 1,
        },
    ],
};

// 0.7
let mut formats = vec![
    VertexFormat::Float32x3,
    VertexFormat::Float32x2,
];
let vertex_layout = VertexBufferLayout::from_vertex_formats(VertexStepMode::Vertex, formats);

~~~

This one might need some additional eyes / touchups.

Using `VertexBufferLayout::from_vertex_formats` **seemed** necessary when migrating code for this change the two times I have done it, but I'm not 100% it actually is.

Author: I think I'll put the vertex attribute stuff in a separate category, but other than that it looks ok to me

Transforms are now consistently applied in the standard scale -> rotate -> translate. This doesn't require any code changes, but it means SpriteBundle will behave as expected when rotating.

### Use marker components for cameras instead of name strings

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3635>

TODO

### Remove the config api

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3633>

TODO

### Cameras now point at RenderTarget rather than Window

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3412>

This change was made to support rendering to textures. Users working with multiple windows may be affected.

```rs
// 0.6
commands.spawn_bundle(PerspectiveCameraBundle {
    camera: Camera {
        window: window_id,
        ..Default::default()
    },
    ..Default::default()
});

// 0.7
commands.spawn_bundle(PerspectiveCameraBundle {
    camera: Camera {
        target: RenderTarget::Window(window_id),
        ..Default::default()
    },
    ..Default::default()
});
```

### Implement init_resource for Commands and World

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3079>

```rs
#[derive(Default)]
struct Scoreboard {
    current_score: u32,
    high_score: u32,
}

// 0.6

> commands.insert_resource(Scoreboard::Default());

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
commands.insert_resource(Scoreboard::default());
```

// 0.7

> commands.init_resource::<Scoreboard>();

Reviewer 4: Don't the 0.6 and the 0.7 examples here have different behaviour in case there is already a scoreboard resource?

Maybe we should just say this is new functionality on Commands, so no 0.6 example.

Author: Well, it's a migration guide, if it's purely new then it doesn't need any migration. I just did that after a quick glance at the PR. I wasn't sure what the change was.

```

> ### ParamSet for conflicting SystemParam

Reviewer 4: Maybe we can move this up? I think this change will affect a lot of users compared to most other changes in this release.

Author: There isn't any order other than the order I saw the PRs in github so that's fine by me.

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/2765>

```rs
// 0.6
fn system(
    mut transforms: QuerySet<(
        QueryState<&mut Transform, With<Marker>>,
        QueryState<&Transform>,
    )>,
) {
    for transform in transforms.q1().iter() {
        // ...
    }
}
// 0.7
fn system(
    mut transforms: ParamSet<(
        Query<&mut Transform, With<Marker>>,
        Query<&Transform>
    )>,
) {
    for transform in transforms.p1().iter() {
        // ...
    }
}
```

### Infallabile resource getters

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/4047>

```rs
// 0.6
let score = world.get_resource::<Score>().unwrap();

// 0.7
let score = world.resource::<Score>();
```

### Events have been moved form bevy_app to bevy_ecs

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/4066>

If you are using the prelude it won't change anything.

```rs
// 0.6
use bevy::app::Events;

// 0.7
use bevy::ecs::event::Events;

> ```

Reviewer 2: Noticed a typo in "from" but went digging on this issue and saw that this affects more than just the `Events` type.

~~~suggestion
### Event handling types are no longer re-exported from bevy_app

<https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/4066>

This only affects users who were importing these types directly from `bevy_app` and not through bevy's prelude.

```rs
// 0.6
use bevy::app::{EventId, EventReader, EventWriter, Events, ManualEventReader};

// 0.7
use bevy::ecs::event::{EventId, EventReader, EventWriter, Events, ManualEventReader};
```
~~~

Vertex buffers no longer need to be manually laid out with offset and stride values in a `RenderPipelineDescriptor`.

```rs
// 0.6
let vertex_buffer_layout = VertexBufferLayout {
    array_stride: 20,
    step_mode: VertexStepMode::Vertex,
    attributes: vec![
        VertexAttribute {
            format: VertexFormat::Float32x3,
            offset: 0,
            shader_location: 0,
        },
        VertexAttribute {
            format: VertexFormat::Float32x2,
            offset: 12,
            shader_location: 1,
        },
    ],
};

// 0.7
let mut formats = vec![
    VertexFormat::Float32x3,
    VertexFormat::Float32x2,
];
let vertex_layout = VertexBufferLayout::from_vertex_formats(VertexStepMode::Vertex, formats);
```

### [Remove the need for 'IntoSystem::into_system()' when using run criteria piping](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3923)

```rs
// 0.6
.with_run_criteria(RunCriteria::pipe(
    "is_done_label",
    IntoSystem::into_system(inverse),
))

// 0.7
.with_run_criteria(RunCriteria::pipe("is_done_label", inverse))
```

### [Remove RunSystem](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/3817)

> You probably should not have been using [`RunSystem`] or [`ParamSystem`], but if you were and you really need it, please make sure to let us know by creating a new discussion over at <https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/discussions>
> 
> <!-- TODO add links to RunSystem and ParamSystem maybe? -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You probably should not have been using [`RunSystem`] or [`ParamSystem`], but if you were and you really need it, please make sure to let us know by [creating a new discussion](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/discussions).

[`RunSystem`]: https://docs.rs/bevy/0.6.1/bevy/ecs/system/trait.RunSystem.html
[`ParamSystem`]: https://docs.rs/bevy/0.6.1/bevy/ecs/system/struct.ParamSystem.html
```

Pretty sure I agree with adding links here (or removing brackets). Also reworked the discussions link.

### [ParamSet for conflicting SystemParam](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/2765)

```rs
// 0.6
fn system(
    mut transforms: QuerySet<(
        QueryState<&mut Transform, With<Marker>>,
        QueryState<&Transform>,
    )>,
) {
    for transform in transforms.q1().iter() {
        // ...
    }
}
// 0.7
fn system(
    mut transforms: ParamSet<(
        Query<&mut Transform, With<Marker>>,
        Query<&Transform>
    )>,
) {
    for transform in transforms.p1().iter() {
        // ...
    }
}
```

### [AliasedMutability](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/4298)

The `QueryEntityError` enum now has a `AliasedMutability` variant, and returns the offending entity.

### [Remove margins.rs](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/4284)

The `Margins` type was removed. To migrate, replace every occurrence of `Margins` with `Rect`.

### [Remove face_toward.rs](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/4277https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/4277)

The `FaceToward` trait was removed. To migrate, replace every occurrence of `Mat4::face_toward` to `Mat4::look_at_rh`.

> ### [`World::entities_mut` is now unsafe](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/4093)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### [World::entities_mut is now unsafe](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/4093)
```

This is looking a bit wonky when rendered
